
Dog Fight Correction

Purpose
This procedure describes the steps to take if a dog fight occurs and outlines the acceptable forms of dog fight correction.
Audience
All center staff
General Information
Destination Pet’s goal is to keep all our pet guests and all staff members safe.
Playroom Safety Tools
The safety of our staff and pet guest is our top priority. It is important for us to provide our playroom handlers the proper safety tools to lead a safe playroom.
Walkie Talkies to communicate to staff with any needs.
Communication boards for handlers to write notes, roll call or any other important information about their playgroup.
Time out/rest crates to be used to manage playroom activity.
Slip leads should be on handlers or near handlers for easy use.
Spray water bottles to help in being proactive to prevent any tiffs or fights.
Whistle or blow horn to be used for playroom incidents.
Safety Spray (Spray Shield) to be used for playroom emergency incidents.
First aid kits in each playroom or within handlers' safety packs for easy access.
Safety check cards for handlers to fill out about pet guest that are displaying any abnormal behaviors, illnesses or injuries.
Safety pack (waist or fanny pack) that holds all safety tools for handlers to have for quick and easy access.
Playroom Handler Safety
Fight Protocol - Be Proactive!
Ensure safety tools can be quickly accessed at all times.
Call for help!
Ask for assistance from your pack! Don’t try to handle an argument alone.
Use your Safety Tools
Spray bottle, water hose, shakers, horns, or safety spray.
Use a prop!
Items like crates, trays, beds or any other objects you can use to create space between the dogs.
Wheelbarrow Technique
Grab the dogs by the hind legs and left up in a wheelbarrow fashion. Do not attempt alone; must have a Pack handler assist you. One pack member grabs dog 1 and the other pack member grabs dog 2, move in opposite directions at the same time.
After the Altercation
Remove all dogs involved from playgroup.
Allow them a few minutes to settle.
Perform a Safety Check
Check all their dog's body for any injuries or wounds and provide care
Check how they are mentally – are they showing signs of trauma or stress?
Procedure
Perform the following steps if a dog fight occurs.
The Animal Care Technicians calls for help either by voice to nearby team member or via walkie talkie.
The Animal Care Technician tries to stop the “argument” with water techniques.
Acceptable water techniques include hose, spray water bottle, water inside of water bowl (not the bowl itself).
Water should be sprayed or splashed around forehead and mouth area (avoid eyes, nose, and ears if possible).
If water techniques have not stopped the argument, then use noise safety tools. These noise safety tools include blow horn, whistle, or other noise makers.
If the noise safety tools do not stop argument, then try to use a prop such as a crate, trays, beds, or other objects to create space between the dogs.
If the dog fight continues, and you have used/exhausted all above safety techniques, then use the shield spray (citronella spray). This should be aimed towards the dog’s nose and mouth area.
If shield spray does not work, you will then use the wheelbarrow technique. You MUST have a buddy to wheelbarrow the other dog at the same time. Grab the dogs by the hind legs and lift up in a wheelbarrow fashion while backing-up, the dogs should be moved in opposite directions.
Must use extreme caution.
Never attempted alone.
Must wheelbarrow the dogs at the same time, moving in opposite directions.
Once the argument is stopped, remove all dogs that were involved in the altercation from the playgroup and allow them to settle. They should go into separate rooms / suites.
Check the dog’s body for any injuries or wounds, provide care.
Follow all steps in the Incident Reporting procedure.
References
Incident Reporting