Respiratory Tract Infections

Purpose
This procedure will walk you through how to notice a respiratory tract infection and the actions to take if a pet is displaying symptoms.
Audience
Center Managers, Assistant Managers, Supervisors
General Information
Respiratory tract infections can affect any organs and tissue related to a dog’s breathing. Upper respiratory infections typically focus on nose, sinuses, and tracheal irritation, with lower respiratory infections affecting the bronchi and lungs. Typically, highly contagious, upper respiratory infections spread via various viral and bacterial pathogens that enter the oral and nasal cavities. Infectious dogs transmit pathogens when they cough, sneeze, have discharge from their nose, or have nose-to-nose contact with other dogs. This is why rapid spread occurs in daycare, boarding kennels, and shelters. 
Pet guests who are displaying signs and symptoms of respiratory tract infections or any illnesses require Veterinary examination are considered a Level 2 Incident and must be reported.   
Managers are to submit the Destination Pet Incident Report Form providing details on the signs and symptoms displayed, pet guests' information (name, owner’s information, and service they were in for), and details on the communication on to the pet parents on findings.    
Center Management is to contact Regional Veterinary Director (RVD) and Regional Manager (RM) on signs and symptoms displayed immediately and provide details on next steps for care for that pet guest. 
Procedure
Follow the below sections to properly handle respiratory tract infections discovered in pets in our care.
Standard on Communcation
Standard on Procedure of Care for Pet Guests Displaying Signs and Symptoms
Standard on Procedure for Isolation Protocols
Standard on Cleaning Procedures
Standard on Communication
Center Management is to contact pet parents with information on signs and symptoms displayed immediately and recommend an exam by a Veterinarian. 
Center Management is to contact RVD and Regional Manager on signs and symptoms displayed immediately and provide details on next steps for care for that pet guest. 
Once the Pet Guests are in the care of a veterinarian. Veterinarian is to communicate with pet parents on diagnosis and treatment 
The center is to only communicate to pet parents on signs and symptoms observed at the center, contact and location information on where pet is receiving medical care 
For pet guests to return to the Pet Center, Veterinarian must provide a medical release. 
If Veterinarian confirms contagious form of URI, Medical Boarding is to be advised to pet parents 1.7.8 Boarding In-Take Pet Condition Check.docx. 

Standard on Procedure of Care for Pet Guests Displaying Signs and Symptoms
Signs and Symptoms: 
Dogs may have a cough that sounds like a “goose honk”.
Many dogs cough up foamy saliva, which can easily be mistaken for vomiting. 
Signs can include sneezing, eye discharge, nose discharge, fatigue, lack of appetite, and fever. 
Serious complications due to secondary infection, such as pneumonia, are possible. This lung infection can cause labored, noisy, rapid breathing with a cough that becomes moist rather than dry. It needs prompt veterinary care to prevent serious illness or loss of life. 
Pet guests who are displaying signs and symptoms of respiratory tract infections should not be checked into the center without a veterinarian signing off that the patient is not contagious.
CRSs should be asking clients at check in if their pet is showing any signs of respiratory illness including: sneezing, eye discharge, nose discharge, fatigue, lack of appetite, fever, coughing 
CSRs should also evaluate pets at check in for these symptoms.
Should be removed from general population and follow isolation protocols. 
Immediately Contact Pet parents on findings.  
Center Management is to contact RVD and Regional Manager 
Disclose Pet Guests signs & symptoms, customer information and next steps for care.    
Submit Incident Report Form. 
Within one business day, pet parents are to either pick up pet guests or allow the center to schedule an exam from a Veterinarian.  
Once the pet guests are in the care of a veterinarian. Veterinarian is to communicate with Pet Parents on diagnosis and treatment. 
If Veterinarian confirms contagious form of URI, Medical Boarding is to be advised to pet parents 1.7.8 Boarding In-Take Pet Condition Check.docx. 

Standard on Procedure for Isolation Protocols 
Designate Isolation area: 
RM & RVD identifies areas of isolation.  
The area should have separate cleaning, feeding and treatment supplies. 
The area also requires separate ventilation (when possible): ideally separated by full wall and door. A designated area within a common air space may not be sufficient but is better than no separation / isolation at all. 
Designate one staff member to care for pet guest. Designated staff is required: 
To wear PPE when handling ill pets to avoid contaminating clothing. 
Separate jumpsuits (full clothing coverage), gloves, boots or shoe covers. 
Enter quarantine/isolation areas limiting exposer to another pet guest.  
Wash their hands: 
Upon arriving at the facility. 
Before and after handling each dog. 
After coming into contact with dogs' saliva, urine, feces, or blood. 
After cleaning cages. 
Before eating meals, taking breaks, or leaving the facility. 
Before and after using the restroom. 
 Clean and disinfect all clothing (including shoes), equipment, surfaces and hands after exposure to dogs showing signs of respiratory disease. 

Standard on Cleaning Procedures
Virox Rescue is the required disinfectant for Pet Centers.
Ensure debris is removed, then spray area with Virox Rescue and let disinfectant sit for appropriate contact time before removing.
Any items (bowls, toys, pop-up crates, beds, lodgings, etc.) that the pet guest displaying signs and symptoms of Respiratory Infection came in contact with must be cleaned and sanitized immediately.
Please refer to the “Cleaning and Sanitation” section of 1.13.3 Cleaning Procedures.

References
1.7.8 Boarding In-Take Pet Condition Check.docx
1.13.3 Cleaning Procedures