Center Crisis

Purpose
Our mission is to ensure the safety of our staff, pet guests, and customers. This procedure will walk you through how to respond to a center crisis. 
Audience
Center Managers, Assistant Manager, Supervisors
General Information
Center Crisis is defined as any of the following events:
Pet death
Natural disaster that impacts safety
Civil unrest
Major public relations issue
Pet Escapes 
Major Injuries
Fires
With any incident, camera footage is not to be mentioned or released without approval from Destination Pet’s Crisis Team.
With any incident, no personal, client, or staff contact information can be released without approval from Destination Pet’s Crisis Team.
Procedure
Follow the below procedure to properly handle center crisis.
 Policy: All employees are to be trained on Destination Pet’s External Crisis procedure.
If a potential crisis has occurred, the Manager has to contact the Regional Manager immediately to discuss preliminary information. 
The Regional Manager and Center/Assistant Manager are to make a plan regarding communication to staff and customers.
Center Manager checks for security/camera footage of the incident. If there is available footage:
The footage is to be downloaded and saved to the computer’s desktop within 24 hours of the incident. Note: Download the actual footage, not just the link.
The footage is to be emailed to the Regional Manager within 24 hours of the incident.
The footage is not to be mentioned or released without approval from DP’s Crisis Team.
Center Manager is to create an email with the title: Center Code – Center Name – City, State – Center Manager Name – Brief description of crisis
Example) 128LSP – Lone Star Pet Lodges – Missouri City, TX – Jane Doe – Cat out/missing inside the center
The Center Manager is to copy and paste the questions below (5a-5q) into an email to Regional Manager. Each question should be answered with as much detail as possible.
Center ID & Location: 
Regional Manager: 
Date/Time of the Incident: 
Incident level
Pet(s) Involved: 
Employee(s) Involved: 
Customer(s) Involved:
Pet Parent(s) name and information:  
Where in the facility did the incident occur? 
Detailed description of the incident:  
Outcome of the incident: 
Was anyone hurt in the incident?
Was the pet taken to a vet? 
Vet clinic providing medical assistance information: 
Was the pet's parent called? 
Date and time the parent was called: 
Does the owner have signed the Master Service Agreement? 
Who contacted the pet parent (include their name and title):
Describe the conversation with the pet parent:
Regional Manager will email the above information to crisis@destpet.com immediately (within the hour of receiving the information).
If an employee was injured, follow the Worker’s Compensation procedure.
If an incident occurs with a pet in our care, follow the Incident Report procedure.
Follow your center’s state guidelines regarding reporting of pet incidents/escapes/deaths.
Pet Death
Follow all the above steps.
The Center Manager is to call owner. Communication content is to be pre-approved by Regional Manager prior to call. 
The Center Manager is always to offer the pet parents a necropsy.
If the pet’s parent selects to have a necropsy performed, the Center Manager requests the necropsy and ensures the vendor contacts Destination Pet for communication around pet’s necropsy.
The Center is to cover all expenses for necropsy.
The Regional Manager and Regional Veterinary Director should be given necropsy results once available. 
Transport the pet for aftercare at their vet and relay the owners’ wishes.
Deactivate the pet in the center’s Point-of-Sale system.
Follow your local/state agency’s requirements for reporting pet death.
If applicable, the center may send flowers and/or sympathy card to the pet’s family.

References
Destination Pet’s External Crisis
Incident Reporting
Worker’s Compensation Process
Dog Fight Correction
Vet Bill Reimbursement