Pet Escape

Purpose
To describe the appropriate actions to take in the event of a missing pet. 
Audience
All employees
General Information
Follow this procedure to properly handle center crisis.
Employees should always practice safety when searching for the pet, i.e. crossing the street, cautiously approaching the pet when found, being aware of surroundings.

Procedure
Policy: All employee are to be trained on Destination Pet’s External Crisis procedure. 
Additional Steps for an Escaped Pet:
Communication
When a pet escape happens, the General Manager (GM) must contact the Regional Manager (RM) right away. The RM and GM must discuss the plan of how to notify the owner and the frequency of updates.
Communication with Pet Parents is crucial, as the manager you will need to keep them updated every step of the way.
While searching, notify any bystanders to contact the center if there is a sighting. Ensure a Customer Service Representative (CSR) is waiting at the front desk for these calls.
Communicate with the search teams when there is a sighting and the location.
Reach out to local Search & Rescue Team for additional support.
Action
Any staff members available must begin to search for the pet immediately. 
Ensure all staff members have a lead, treats to lure the pet and a cell phone with them.
Put all pets in kennels immediately to address the escape cause and to free up as many staff members as possible to assist with the search.
Call in any staff members not on shift to assist.
Ensure all staff members have a lead, treats to lure the pet and a cell phone with them. 
Contact local police and animal control.
Inform them what pet looks like, it’s temperament and if it’s current on vaccines.
Use Gingr profile photo.
Monitor Facebook, Next-door and any other social media platform popular in the community.
Reach out to any Destination Pet location that is nearby to assist with the search.
Contact local shelters and veterinary hospitals. If available, give microchip information.
Set up kennel with food, water, and blanket outside center. When possible, use the pet’s personal items such as the owner’s item that has scent and/or their other pet’s items that has the familiar scent.
For any cats & small animals that have escaped, check all air vents, ceilings, trees, etc.
Once pet is found alive
Approach pet calmly, slowly, and cautiously.
Contact the RM immediately and create a plan to notify owner.
The pet must be examined by a veterinarian; we can transport or owner.
The center will cover the veterinary bill.
GM will discuss the current boarding/daycare bill with the RM.
Notify search party, animal control, police etc. that the pet has been found.
If pet is found deceased
GM must contact RM immediately before taking any further action. 
Retrieve the body and bring to veterinarian.
Follow Up Procedures
After any escape, find root cause and address the concern. Review prevention of escape tips and make any needed adjustments to your facility. Management must complete detailed perimeter check to identify any other issues.
Prevention of escape:
Tips on how to prevent a pet escape: 
Monitor build-up of dirt, mulch, pea gravel, snow near fences.
Best practice to incorporate coyote rollers at top of fences to limit ability of pets to escape out of enclosed area.
Never leave pet unattended.
Watch placement of play equipment near fences.
Ensure all Behavioral Questions are accurate and up to date on pet’s profile.
Monitor facility for escape points. Perimeter checks should be completed by staff daily. 
Double lock all kennels and yard gates with carabiners. 
Keep all doors in the facility closed.
Do not prop open doors to receive deliveries or air out the room.
Always ensure the pet is double leashed with a lead/harness if you take them outside the facility.
References
Destination Pet’s External Crisis