Happy Tails Check

Purpose
Our goal is to stay up to date with our pet guests’ health while in our care. This procedure will outline how and when to perform a Happy Tails Check.
Audience
Center Managers, Assistant Managers, Supervisors, Animal Care Attendants
General Information
Destination Pet requires Happy Tails Checks to be completed twice daily for boarding pets. Happy Tails – Boarders Log form is to be marked as these checks are completed (twice daily).
On the departure date, Happy Tails Check must be completed for the pet prior to departure.
Destination Pet requires Happy Tails Check to be completed once daily for half day daycare.
Destination Pet requires Happy Tails Check to be completed twice daily for full day daycare. 
Only if there are abnormalities found on the pet, the Happy Tails Check Form must be completed and submitted to Supervisor immediately.
Checks can be performed while in their lodging suites, in playgroups or during boarding and train, daycare and train, and grooming services. 
Checks should be signed off for completion on daily checklist for daycare, training, and spa services guests.
Procedure
Follow the procedure below to properly perform Happy Tails Check.
 Policy: Happy Tails Check must be completed for each pet in our care. Follow the above for the frequency in which to perform the checks.
Follow the Happy Tails Check Directions on how to perform a Happy Tails Check.
If an abnormality is found:
Complete the Happy Tails Check Form. 
Submit the form to the Supervisors immediately.
Supervisors determine the next steps for pet’s care. 
The form needs to be scanned into the pet’s profile.

For boarders, the staff’s initials that Happy Tails Check was performed. If any abnormalities are found:
Complete the Happy Tails Check Form. 
Submit the form to the Supervisors immediately.
Supervisors determine the next steps for pet’s care. 
The form needs to be scanned into the pet’s profile.
At the end of boarding stay, scan the Happy Tails – Boarder Log document into the pet’s profile.
References
Happy Tails Check Directions
Happy Tails Check Card - Cat
Happy Tails Check Card – Dog
Happy Tails – Boarders Log

